#  Pokedex App

The pokedex is a aplication that use the API Pokéapi like data source .Aplication Based on the pokeomon Restful Api (Pokeapi).
The purpose of the Pokedex is to bring detailed information about the ecosystem of the Pokémons. Like details, types and stats of the pokemons. And personally i made it for fun, Knowledge and practice.

## Functionalities and Features
- I use a search bar to search pokemons for names or key words.
- Implements a filter for search pokemons by types.
- There is list of pokemons in the principal view.
- There are multiple cards for display the pokemons.
- The pokemon details are displayed by a seccundary view.

## Technology and installation

1. This project was generated whit Angular CLI version 15.2.5, if you want to install this version in your local project, type the next command.
```
npm i @angular/cli@15.2.5
```
2. For this project i use [nodejs version 18.15.0](https://nodejs.org/en/blog/release/v18.15.0 "node version 18.15.0") and [npm 9.5.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm/v/9.5.0 "npm 9.5.0")

3.  This project use the library [ngx-owl-carousel-o](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ngx-owl-carousel-o "ngx-owl-carousel-o") version 15.0.0, type the next command to install..
```
npm install ngx-owl-carousel-o
```
4. Import the CarouselModule to your principal module.
```
import { CarouselModule } from 'ngx-owl-carousel-o';
```
5. To clone and use this project type the next code.
```
git clone https://github.com/Eddy-glitcher/PokemonApp.git
```
6. Use the next command to install the necessary packages for the project.
```
npm install
```

------------

## Project Structure
The system of organization used in this project is described whit the next structure.
1. The **PokedexApp** file was used to contain all the aplication, this file act like a principal Module for the aplication.
2. The **components** file was created to implements the component system, to divide the functionalities of the aplication in small parts.
## List of components in components file.
1. **pokemon-card** : This component is used to show the stats and the basic information of the pokemon and generate a card. The component receives a pokemon (Object) and displays the information base on it.
2. **pokemon-filters**: This component contains the list of the pokemon types in a carousel generated by ngx-owl-carousel-o package. This list contains the type name and the image of the corresponding type in a button. When anyone of the generated buttons is pressed the pokemon list is updated whit the corresponding type.
3. **pokemon-input**: This component is used to search a pokemon by name or key words. Implements a debouncer to display a list of suggestions based in the input text. This functionality is provided for Event Emitters.
4. **pokemon-loader**: This components is displayed when the data is loading. The component contains a image and text than describe the loading state.


------------
## Interfaces
The Interfaces used on this project was generated by [quicktype.io](https://quicktype.io/ "quicktype.io").
1. **pokemon-data**: This interface describe the data of each one of the pokemons.
2. **pokemon-type**: This interface describe the data of each one of the pokemons by type.
3. **pokemon-list**: This interface describe the data type of the list of pokemons.
4. **pokemon-filters**: This interface describe the data type of the pokemon filters.

------------
## Pages
The pages ares the diferents views of the project:
1. **home-page**: This component displays the principal view of the aplication and group a diferent components like **pokemon-input** to search the pokemons by name, **pokemon-filters** to search pokemons by type and **pokemon-card** to display each one of the pokemon on list.
2. **pokemon-view**: This component display the stats and details of the selected pokemon. This component use the pokemon-loader to display a loader until the pokemon details is charged.

------------
## Shared 
The shared file is used to contains the components that will be shared in all the context of the aplication:
1. **header.component**: This component is the header of the aplication and is compound for a poster image and a background color.

------------
## Pipes
This project use custom pipes.
1. **defaultpokemon-image.pipe**: This pipe is used to set a default poster image for the pokemon, when the pokemon does´nt have it.
2. **height-weight.pipe**: This pipe is used to set the format of the data for height and weight.

------------
## Services
This file contains all the service functionality to communicate the aplication whit the API (pokeapi):
1. **poke-api.service**: This service is the responsible to get the pokemons from the API (pokeapi). The service implements multiple functions to make it possible whit http request for continuous communication.

------------
## Lazy-loading
This aplication use a simple sistem of routes whit lazy-loading:
1. **home**: This route load the **home-page.component**.
2. **pokemon/:name**: This route load the **pokemon-view.component**, The route receives on the params a pokemon name, to load the stats and basic information of the pokemon.
3. If the route receives does´nt exists, the **home** route is loaded by default.

------------
## Normalize.scss
This css file contains all the styles to simplify and keep similar for all the navigators.
